---
parent: Meetings
title: "2025-04-08"
---

# LF Energy Technical Advisory Council (TAC) Meeting \- April 8, 2025

## Voting Representative Attendees

### Strategic Member Representatives

* Art Pope \- Google LLC  
* Bryce Bartmann \- Shell International Exploration & Production, Inc.  
* Moise Kameni \- Hydro-Quebec   
* Nico Rikken \- Alliander (sub for Jonas van den Bogaard)

### Project Representatives

* Clément Bouvier \- OperatorFabric Representative  
* Maarten Mulder \- Grid eXchange Fabric (GXF) Representative  
* Sophie Frasnedo \- PowSyBl Representative   
* Travis Sikes \- OpenDSM Representative

### Non-Voting Project and Working Group Representatives

* Arila Barnes \- Hyphae Representative  
* Chris Xie \- ORES Representative  
* Karl Yang \- ORES Representative  
* Mark Nigge-Uricher \- SAM Representative  
* Nicolas Höning \- FlexMeasures Representative  
* Robben Riksen \- Shapeshifter Representative

### LF Staff

* Alex Thornton \- LF Energy  
* Alexandre Parisot \- LF Energy  
* John Mertic \- The Linux Foundation  
* Michelle Roth \- The Linux Foundation  
* Dan Brown \- The Linux Foundation

### Other Attendees

## Antitrust Policy Notice

Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at [linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy). If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.

## Agenda

- General Updates  
- New Project Exploration  
- Open Renewable Energy System (ORES) WG Annual Review ([\#107](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/107))  
- Shapeshifter Annual Review ([\#136](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/136))  
- SAM Proposal to Move to Emeritus ([\#411](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/411))  
- Marketing and Events updates

## Meeting Assets

- [Recording](https://zoom.us/rec/share/RPd9sgllrEQM2d0hYLE5xeqIyO6s_cLBLSntUAqmIGm7qk1omEIrC4Auo1_cDVOa.QtRNOKI6VHLJR9oS)
- [Slides](2025-04-08/LF Energy - TAC Meeting - 2025-04-08.pdf)
- [Open Renewable Energy System (ORES) WG Annual Review](https://github.com/user-attachments/files/19756926/LF_Energy_ORES_Annual_Review_2025.pptx.pdf)

## Notes

John Mertic called the meeting to order at 8:03am PT. 

### Opening and General Updates

Mertic reviewed the antitrust policy and the agenda. Mertic mentioned there is a New Project Exploration along with a few project reviews for today, and the meeting will conclude with a marketing and events update. 

### Projects and Working Group Leads

Mertic announced that Hydro-Quebec has upgraded and Moise Kameni will be joining the TAC as their representative. 

Mertic reviewed the 2025 TAC meeting schedule and put forward a proposal from the LF Energy Governing Board to hold a joint meeting with the TAC onsite at LF Energy Summit, and consequently adjust the usual September TAC meeting one week earlier to September 2\. No objections were made.  

Next, Mertic shared the annual review schedule for LF Energy projects and SIGs. 

Mertic briefly reviewed the TAC resources, website, and project pipeline. Mertic gave an update on a few projects that had previously been stalled in LF onboarding, CUPID, and RTC-Tools. Mertic noted that Interconnect SIF and Onenet Framework are also still working on the onboarding process. 

### TAC Priorities 

Mertic reviewed the current status of the 2025 TAC Priorities, noting that it has been reorganized for better visibility. Mertic invited the TAC to review the project landscape and provide any feedback to the recent updates. Mertic asked the TAC to fill out an updated Doodle poll for the previously discussed Documentation Audit/Process meeting. 

Mertic reviewed the plan for the TAC to allot funding for cloud infrastructure and other technical needs, noting that spend has been immediately frozen for Sandbox projects. Mertic said the next step is to build an allocation plan for the TAC to review at the June TAC meeting, noting that affected projects have already been notified. 

### New Project Exploration ([\#483](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/483))

Alex Thornton presented the plan for new project exploration, which will entail creating short-lived groups to explore specific domains. Alexandre Parisot gave further details on three initial target areas: Grid Connection Planning, Asset Management, and Grid Topology Optimization. Parisot asked for feedback from the TAC, and discussion ensued. 

### Review for ORES Working Group

Chris Xie presented an overview of the Open Renewable Energy System (ORES) Working Group. Karl Yang reviewed the reference system architecture design, reference system trial deployments, and other priorities of the working group. Xie noted that ORES is working on growing their community, vendor opportunities, and visibility. 

### Review for Shapeshifter 

Robben Riksen presented an overview of Shapeshifter. Riksen noted that while the year was quiet, it is stable with a motivated TSC. Riksen reviewed project milestones and current year roadmap, noting that community building and implementing new ideas from a recent strategy session are project priorities. Riksen concluded with the proposal for Shapeshifter to stay in the incubator stage for 2025 as they continue to work towards Early Adoption.  

### SAM Proposal to move to Emeritus

Mark Nigge-Uricher presented an update on SAM, noting participation has come to a halt due to a combination of factors. Nigge-Uricher noted that there is future potential, but proposed that in the meantime SAM should be moved to Emeritus until it makes sense to pick the work back up. Mertic presented a motion to approve moving SAM to Emeritus. Bryce Bartmann motioned to approve the resolution which was seconded by Maarten Mulder. With a majority of TAC members present, the resolution was approved. 

**RESOLVED:** That the motion to move SAM to Emeritus is hereby approved. 

### Marketing and PR Updates

Dan Brown presented a review of LF Energy marketing updates, including upcoming webinars and meetups. Brown highlighted the upcoming LF Energy Summit Europe and reviewed other 2025 LFE-hosted events. 

## Next Meeting Agenda

Mertic presented the agenda for the next meeting of the LF Energy TAC, scheduled for 13 May 2025 at 8:00 a.m. US Pacific Time/11:00 a.m. US Eastern Time/5:00 p.m. Central European Time.

* General Updates  
* SONGO Annual Review  
* Battery Data Alliance Annual Review  
* New Project Proposal \- CUPID  
* Marketing and PR Updates

   
