---
parent: Meetings
title: "2025-06-10"
---

# LF Energy Technical Advisory Council (TAC) Meeting - June 10, 2025

## Voting Representative Attendees

### Strategic Member Representatives

- [ ] Antonello Monti - RWTH Aachen University (Chair)
- [x] Art Pope - Google LLC
- [x] Boris Dolley - RTE (Reseau de Transport dElectricite)
- [ ] Bryce Bartmann - Shell International Exploration & Production, Inc.
- [ ] Jonas van den Bogaard - Alliander 
- [x] Sebastien Lussier - Hydro-Quebec (alternate for Moise Kameni) 
- [ ] Yixing Xu - Microsoft Corporation

### Project Representatives

- [x] Clément Bouvier - OperatorFabric Representative
- [x] Maarten Mulder - Grid eXchange Fabric (GXF) Representative
- [x] Sophie Frasnedo - PowSyBl Representative 
- [ ] Travis Sikes - OpenDSM Representative

### Non-Voting Project and Working Group Representatives

- [x] Alexandre Parisot - AI SIG Representative
- [x] Arila Barnes - Hyphae Representative
- [ ] Chris Xie - ORES Representative
- [x] Gabe Hege - Battery Data Alliance Representative
- [ ] Hugo van de Pol - OpenLEADR Representative
- [ ] Eloi Bail - SEAPATH Representative
- [ ] Karl Yang - ORES Representative
- [ ] Mark Nigge-Uricher - SAM Representative
- [x] Michael Stuber - GEISA Representative
- [ ] Nicolas Höning - FlexMeasures Representative
- [x] Richard Lam - GEISA Representative
- [ ] Robben Riksen - Shapeshifter Representative
- [x] Hugo van de Pol - OpenLEADR Representative
- [ ] Tony Xiang - Power Grid Model Representative

### LF Staff

- [x] Alex Thornton - LF Energy
- [x] John Mertic - The Linux Foundation
- [x] Michelle Roth - The Linux Foundation
- [x] Dan Brown - The Linux Foundation

### Other Attendees

* Bruce Nordman - Lawrence Berkeley National Labs 
* Daan van Es - Alliander
* Robert de Leeuw - Pionix

## Antitrust Policy Notice

Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at [linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy). If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.

## Agenda

* General Updates
* Annual Review: OpenLEADR ([#24](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/24))
* TAC Discussion on Strategic Topics
* Marketing and Events Updates

## Assets

- [Recording](https://zoom.us/rec/share/kmlLQg7Ucp3yt-ZQw1PUYM-KqetH9NsTUFB5vwhf5MLioMCsZO_WANx2SPaK8v8L.NBYIh0FeKTbyBSmM)
- [Deck](2025-06-10/LF%20Energy%20-%20TAC%20Meeting%20-%202025-06-10.pdf)

## Notes

John Mertic called the meeting to order at 8:03am PT. 

### Opening and General Updates

Mertic reviewed the antitrust policy and the agenda. 

### Projects and Working Group Leads

Mertic briefly reviewed the TAC project annual review schedule and project pipeline, reminding the TAC that there is only one more regular meeting in July, then a break until September. Mertic reviewed the project and SIG leader lists, and Robert de Leeuw gave a brief update on recent activities in the EV Charging SIG. Mertic noted a few changes in the project annual review schedule for the TAC and for SIGs, along with the SIG meeting schedule. Mertic gave an update on a few projects that are in progress, CityLearn, LFC and RTC-Tools. Mertic noted that Interconnect SIF is close to done and OneNet Framework is still in the process of moving to LF Europe.  

### TAC Priorities 

Mertic reviewed the current status of the 2025 TAC Priorities. Mertic highlighted the project resource request process, asking for any final feedback before the LFX vote is sent out. Mertic also proposed a few ideas about how to improve SIG support and collaboration with the TAC, and discussion ensued. 

### Review for OpenLEADR (#24)

Hugo van de Pol presented an overview of OpenLEADR, highlighting progress made towards the Incubation Phase. Van de Pol also noted that contributions have increased, but there are still a limited number of overall contributors to the project. Van de Pol also reviewed key achievements from the past year, including that the OpenLEADR 3.0 project is now being used for pilots. 

### TAC Discussion on Strategic Topics

Alex Thornton introduced the strategic topic of AI Hierarchy of Needs, including foundational prerequisites. Thornton also reviewed LF Energy’s current list of grid edge/flexibility projects. Additionally, Robert de Leeuw presented a change in scope for the EV Charging SIG, and discussion ensued. 

### Marketing and PR Updates

Dan Brown presented a review of LF Energy marketing updates, including upcoming webinars and meetups. Brown highlighted the upcoming LF Energy Summit Europe and reviewed other 2025 LFE-hosted events. 

## Next Meeting Agenda

- General Updates
- Annual Review: Grid eXchange Fabric (GXF) [#8](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/8)
- Annual Review: Real Time Data Ingestion Platform (RTDIP) [#26](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/26)
- Annual Review: NODE Collective [#108](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/108)
