---
parent: Meetings
title: "2025-05-13"
---

# LF Energy Technical Advisory Council (TAC) Meeting - May 13, 2025

Join the meeting at [https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/95214651568?password=eda16f17-bdd1-4a9f-a594-0947a1433153](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/95214651568?password=eda16f17-bdd1-4a9f-a594-0947a1433153)

## Voting Representative Attendees

### Strategic Member Representatives

- [ ] Art Pope - Google LLC
- [x] Boris Dolley - RTE (Reseau de Transport dElectricite)
- [x] Bryce Bartmann - Shell International Exploration & Production, Inc.
- [x] Jonas  Van Den Bogaard - Alliander
- [x] Moise Kameni - Hydro-Québec
- [ ] Yixing Xu - Microsoft Corporation

### Project Representatives

- [x] Antonello Monti - SOGNO Representative
- [ ] Clément Bouvier - OperatorFabric Representative
- [ ] Maarten Mulder - Grid eXchange Fabric (GXF) Representative
- [x] Sophie Frasnedo - PowSyBl Representative
- [x] Travis Sikes - OpenDSM Representative

## Non-Voting Attendees

### Non-Voting Project and Working Group Representatives

- [x] Alexandre Parisot - AI SIG Representative
- [ ] Alyona Teyber - Grid Vantage Representative
- [x] Arila Barnes - Hyphae Representative, OpenLEADR Representative
- [ ] Chris Xie - ORES (Open Renewal Energy Systems) Representative
- [ ] Eloi Bail - SEAPATH Representative
- [ ] Nicolas Höning - FlexMeasures Representative
- [ ] Robben Riksen - Shapeshifter Representative
- [ ] Stan Janssen - OpenLEADR Representative
- [ ] Tony Xiang - Power Grid Model Representative

### LF Staff

- [x] Alex Thornton - LF Energy
- [x] Alexandre Parisot - LF Energy
- [x] John Mertic - The Linux Foundation
- [x] Michelle Roth - The Linux Foundation
- [x] Dan Brown - The Linux Foundation

### Other Attendees

- Alexandre Lucas - INESC TEC
- Francois Miralles - Hydro-Quebec
- Issa Zouboye - Alliander
- Juan Galeano - E. ON Energy Research Center, Aachen University
- Matjaz Juric - Sunesis
- Sanket Gaikwad - E. ON Energy Research Center, Aachen University
- Sebastien Lussier - Hydro-Quebec

## Antitrust Policy Notice

Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it
is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct all of its activities in
accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. It is therefore
extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of,
and not participate in, any activities that are prohibited under applicable US
state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings
and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are described in the Linux
Foundation Antitrust Policy available at
[linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy).
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel,
or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, feel free to contact Andrew
Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to
the Linux Foundation.

## Recording and Deck

- [Recording]()
- [Deck](2025-05-13/LF%20Energy%20-%20TAC%20Meeting%20-%202025-05-13.pdf)
 - [CUPID Project Proposal](2025-05-13/CUPID.pdf)
 - [SOGNO Annual Review](2025-05-13/LFE-SOGNO-TAC-Review-2025.pdf)
 - [OpenDSM Annual Review](2025-05-13/LFE_OpenDSM_ProjectAnnualReview_TAC_2025.pdf)

## Agenda

- General Updates
  - Previously TAC approved projects stalled in LF onboarding [#390](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/390)
  - TAC Priorities 2025 [#436](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/436)
  - Process for projects to request resources/funding [#477](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/477)
- New Project/Working Group Proposal: CUPID (Controllable Unit Protocol Interface for DER) (was IEEE 2030.5 over NATS) [#383](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/383)
- Annual Review: SOGNO [#75](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/75)
- Annual Review: OpenDSM [#7](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/7)

## Notes

John Mertic called the meeting to order at 8:03am PT. 

### Opening and General Updates

Mertic reviewed the antitrust policy and the agenda. Mertic mentioned there is a New Project Proposal along with a few project reviews for today, and the meeting will conclude with a marketing and events update. Mertic reminded the TAC that there will not be an August TAC meeting; instead, there is an early September meeting followed by an in-person joint meeting with the Governing Board at LF Energy Summit.  

### Projects and Working Group Leads

Mertic briefly reviewed the TAC project annual review schedule and project pipeline. Mertic gave an update on a few projects that are in progress, CityLearn, LFC and RTC-Tools. Mertic noted that Interconnect SIF is close to done and OneNet Framework is still in the process of moving to LF Europe.  

### TAC Priorities 

Mertic reviewed the current status of the 2025 TAC Priorities. Mertic highlighted the upcoming Documentation Audit/Process meeting scheduled for May 20 at 8am PDT. Mertic also highlighted the project request process.  

### New Project Proposal - CUPID (#383)

Antonello Monti presented the proposal for new project CUPID, a controllable unit protocol interface for DER. Jonas van der Bogaard suggested that this could be an opportunity for further collaboration and alignment between LF Energy projects, and discussion ensued. Mertic took the action to discuss further offline, and work with Dan Brown to potentially showcase or highlight such alignment and/or use cases on the LF Energy website and marketing channels. Mertic presented a motion to approve moving CUPID to the sandbox stage. Jonas van den Bogaard motioned to approve the resolution which was seconded by Bryce Bartmann. Antonello Mori abstained. With a majority of TAC members present, the resolution was approved. 

- RESOLVED: That the motion to move CUPID to the sandbox stage is hereby approved. 

### Review for SONGO (#75)

Monti presented an overview of SONGO, highlighting key achievements from the past year including the introduction of prototype architecture. Monti noted that SONGO would like to improve collaboration with other LF projects and promote growth opportunities. Monti also noted that SONGO is working on their OpenSSF badge, with the ultimate goal of achieving the Silver Badge. 

### Review for OpenDSM (#7)

Travis Sikes presented an overview of OpenDSM (formerly OpenEEmeter). Sikes noted that OpenDSM has gained recognition as a standard, and continues to demonstrate growth within the project community. Sikes also highlighted that OpenDSM is 87% of the way towards the OpenSSF Silver Badge. 

### Marketing and PR Updates

Dan Brown presented a review of LF Energy marketing updates, including upcoming webinars and meetups. Brown highlighted the upcoming LF Energy Summit Europe and reviewed other 2025 LFE-hosted events. 

### Next Meeting Agenda

Mertic presented the agenda for the next meeting of the LF Energy TAC, scheduled for 10 June 2025 at 8:00 a.m. US Pacific Time/11:00 a.m. US Eastern Time/5:00 p.m. Central European Time.

- General Updates
- Node Collective Annual Review
- SC Decarbonization Hub Annual Review
- Marketing and PR Updates
