---
parent: Meetings
title: "2025-10-14"
---

# LF Energy Technical Advisory Council (TAC) Meeting - October 14, 2025


## Voting Representative Attendees


### Strategic Member Representatives


- [ ] Antonello Monti - RWTH Aachen University (Chair)
- [ ] Art Pope - Google LLC
- [x] Boris Dolley - RTE (Reseau de Transport dElectricite)
- [x] Bryce Bartmann - Shell International Exploration & Production, Inc.
- [x] Jonas van den Bogaard - Alliander 
- [ ] Moise Kameni - Hydro-Quebec 


### Project Representatives



- [ ] Clément Bouvier - OperatorFabric Representative
- [x] Maarten Mulder - Grid eXchange Fabric (GXF) Representative
- [x] Peter Mitri - PowSyBl Representative 
- [x] Travis Sikes - OpenDSM Representative


### Non-Voting Project and Working Group Representatives



- [x] Arila Barnes - Hyphae Representative
- [ ] Chris Xie - ORES Representative
- [ ] Daniel Roesler - CDS WG1 & 2 Representative
- [ ] Gabe Hege - Battery Data Alliance Representative
- [ ] Hugo van de Pol - OpenLEADR Representative
- [x] Eloi Bail - SEAPATH Representative
- [x] Frederic Didier - OperatorFabric Representative
- [ ] Karl Yang - ORES Representative
- [ ] Mark Nigge-Uricher - SAM Representative
- [x] Michael Stuber - GEISA Representative
- [ ] Nicolas Höning - FlexMeasures Representative
- [x] Richard Lam - GEISA Representative
- [ ] Robben Riksen - Shapeshifter Representative
- [ ] Robert Tusveld - GXF Representative
- [ ] Stan Janssen - OpenLEADR Representative
- [ ] Thana Paris - CitrineOS Representative
- [ ] Tony Xiang - Power Grid Model Representative
- [x] Kjell Petter Myhren - p-SWAMP
- [x] Sachin Bhakar


### LF Staff



- [x] Alex Thornton - LF Energy
- [x] Alexandre Parisot - LF Energy
- [ ] Dan Brown - The Linux Foundation
- [x] John Mertic - The Linux Foundation
- [x] Yarille Ortiz - The Linux Foundation


### Other Attendees



* Christophe Villemer, Savoir-faire Linux
* Prince Singh, Alliander
* Sebastien Lussier, Hydro-Quebec

Recording: [https://zoom.us/rec/share/jdNrZOGE7yJtW2CU-dm8FeztcQsltcIK1SjAILoaLnwp3KaoA5R9Jo_CEssjFW_K.6lmEqrdWh1U4ofGr](https://zoom.us/rec/share/jdNrZOGE7yJtW2CU-dm8FeztcQsltcIK1SjAILoaLnwp3KaoA5R9Jo_CEssjFW_K.6lmEqrdWh1U4ofGr)


## Antitrust Policy Notice

Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at [linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy). If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.


## Agenda



* General Updates
* New Project Proposal: Project Origin [#576](https://github.com/orgs/lf-energy/projects/2?pane=issue&itemId=118976779&issue=lf-energy%7Ctac%7C576)
* Annual Review: Archimate [#93](https://github.com/orgs/lf-energy/projects/2/views/1?pane=issue&itemId=45965002&issue=lf-energy%7Ctac%7C93)
* Annual Review: GEISA [#230](https://github.com/orgs/lf-energy/projects/2/views/1?pane=issue&itemId=79780662&issue=lf-energy%7Ctac%7C230)
* Marketing and Events Updates


## Notes

John Mertic called the meeting to order at 8:03am PT. 


### Opening and General Updates

Mertic reviewed the antitrust policy and the agenda. 


### Projects and Working Group Leads

Mertic briefly reviewed the TAC project annual review schedule and project pipeline.

Mertic discussed the future of projects, noting Fledge's interest in LF Energy and ongoing discussions with AINETUS about integrating its open-source artifacts from the AI RealNet project. He anticipated project proposals soon and highlighted the overall project pipeline.


### TAC Priorities 

Mertic provided updates on current focuses and actions. He addressed the recently presented project website policy, clarifying that existing platforms like Read the Docs can be accommodated and offered assistance for compliance. Boris Dolley inquired about the timeline for aligning with the overall strategy, suggesting six to nine months, to which Mertic responded that six months was a reasonable timeframe and offered proactive help with PRs to lessen the load. Jonas van den Bogaard supported the policy, emphasizing its value for project clarity and alignment.

Mertic also provided an update on the documentation audit support, revealing a draft markdown document that uses the OpenSSF Best Practices Badge as a rubric for project quality. This document, still a work in progress, aims to provide clear explanations, tools, and expectations. Both Dolley and van den Bogaard underscored the importance of documentation in open source.

Finally, Mertic announced a refresh of the Project Lifecycle Review. A short survey will be sent to project leads to identify challenges and unclear areas, with the goal of using this feedback to guide future discussions and adjustments to the lifecycle process. He encouraged TAC members to provide feedback via a GitHub issue in the meantime.

Mertic spoke about security audits and proposed a strategy for 2026 to focus on "lighter weight" security audits for incubation projects, rather than full-blown audits. He noted the cost of one full audit is equivalent to five lighter audits, and that some projects, like SOGNO, might be better suited for a threat model analysis. Van den Bogaard supported this idea, noting that it offers more options beyond the current full security audit and could serve as a stepping stone for more advanced audits. Many other TAC members agreed.


### Project Origin Presentation [#576](https://github.com/orgs/lf-energy/projects/2?pane=issue&itemId=118976779&issue=lf-energy%7Ctac%7C576)

There were no representatives present for the Project Origin proposal. Ortiz will work to reschedule the presentation.


### ArchiMate SIG Annual Review [#93](https://github.com/orgs/lf-energy/projects/2/views/1?pane=issue&itemId=45965002&issue=lf-energy%7Ctac%7C93)

Prince Singh and van den Bogaard presented the ArchiMate annual review. Singh mentioned the SIG began with 6 to 7 members and is now down to 3. 

Singh shared their request to move ArchiMate to Emeritus status as there has been declining interest from projects in adopting the functional architecture beyond Alliander. He outlined the group's past goals of creating synergy and standardizing modeling practices with ArchiMate, noting that while they achieved deliverables like the functional architecture and reference models, sustained interest from projects in modeling or reviewing their architectures has been low.

TAC members expressed appreciation for the ArchiMate project's efforts and the importance of standardizing architecture for interoperability within LF Energy. They acknowledged the challenges projects face, such as lack of access to original architecture and the time-consuming nature of reverse engineering. Some members suggested that a more proactive approach is needed to understand why projects haven't completed ArchiMate requirements, such as meeting with project leads to understand their challenges. Dolley proposed exploring how AI could assist in generating architecture descriptions.

Van den Bogaard reiterated that placing the SIG in "emeritus status" means it can be reactivated if new traction emerges. He suggested that the TAC could serve as a point of contact for architectural questions, which could, in turn, signal sufficient interest to reactivate the SIG. The group agreed to move the project to emeritus status via an offline LFX vote and to add a future TAC agenda item to discuss broader strategies for project alignment.


### GEISA Annual Review [#230](https://github.com/orgs/lf-energy/projects/2/views/1?pane=issue&itemId=79780662&issue=lf-energy%7Ctac%7C230)

Michael Stuber and Richard Lam presented the GEISA annual review. They provided a summary of their mission and accomplishments over the past year. Stuber outlined plans for the next 12 months which involve further building out the specification, expanding conformance tests, and increasing momentum through demos at UBBA and Distributec 2026.

He provided feedback on areas where help is needed as well as on working with LF Energy. Stuber suggested the project webpage should be editable by the project team, similar to the Confluence page, and noted that some review template requirements were unexpected after a year of project work.

Arila Barnes asked what the difference is between an LF Energy Project and LF Energy Standards group and mentioned wanting to launch a standards group. A discussion ensued in which Mertic said it would be a good idea to have a LF Energy Standards presentation at a future meeting. 


## Closing and Next Meeting 

Mertic presented the agenda for the next meeting of the LF Energy TAC, scheduled for 11 November 2025 at 8:00 a.m. US Pacific Time/11:00 a.m. US Eastern Time/5:00 p.m. Central European Time.

 
