---
parent: Meetings
title: "2025-09-02"
---

# LF Energy Technical Advisory Council (TAC) Meeting - September 2, 2025

Join the meeting at [https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/95214651568?password=eda16f17-bdd1-4a9f-a594-0947a1433153](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/95214651568?password=eda16f17-bdd1-4a9f-a594-0947a1433153)

## Voting Representative Attendees

### Strategic Member Representatives

- [X] Art Pope - Google LLC
- [ ] Boris Dolley - RTE (Reseau de Transport dElectricite)
- [ ] Bryce Bartmann - Shell International Exploration & Production, Inc.
- [x] Jonas  Van Den Bogaard - Alliander
- [X] Moïse K. Kameni - Hydro-Québec
- [X] Sebastien Lussier - Hydro-Québec

### Project Representatives

- [X] Antonello Monti - SOGNO Representative
- [x] Clément Bouvier - OperatorFabric Representative
- [X] Maarten Mulder - Grid eXchange Fabric (GXF) Representative
- [ ] Sophie Frasnedo - PowSyBL Representative
- [ ] Travis Sikes - OpenDSM Representative

## Non-Voting Attendees

### Non-Voting Project and Working Group Representatives

- [ ] Alexandre Parisot - AI SIG Representative
- [ ] Alyona Teyber - Grid Vantage Representative
- [X] Arila Barnes - Hyphae Representative, OpenLEADR Representative
- [X] Benjamin Donnot - Grid2Op Representative
- [ ] Chris Xie - ORES (Open Renewal Energy Systems) Representative
- [ ] Christopher Atkins - TROLIE Representative
- [ ] Daan Van Es - OpenSTEF Representative
- [ ] Daniel Roesler - Connected Data Specification - Customer Data Working Group (CDS WG3) Representative, Connected Data Specification - Registration Working Group (CDS WG1) Representative
- [ ] David Chassin - Arras Representative, FIDOPower Representative
- [ ] Deandrea Salvador - NODE Collective Representative
- [x] Eloi Bail - SEAPATH Representative
- [X] François Mirallès - GridFM Representative
- [ ] Frédéric Didier - OperatorFabric Representative
- [X] Gabe Hege - Battery Data Alliance Representative
- [ ] Gus Chadney - OpenSynth Representative
- [ ] Hugo Van De Pol - OpenLEADR Representative
- [ ] Jos Zenner - Digital Substations SIG Representative
- [ ] Marco Chiaramello - Dynaωo Representative
- [ ] Marco Möller - EVerest Representative
- [ ] Maxime Pelletier - Digital Substations SIG Representative
- [ ] Michael Stuber - Grid Edge Interoperability & Security Alliance (GEISA) Representative
- [ ] Nicolas Höning - FlexMeasures Representative
- [ ] Peter Salemink - Power Grid Model Representative
- [ ] Richard Lam - Grid Edge Interoperability & Security Alliance (GEISA) Representative
- [ ] Robben Riksen - Shapeshifter Representative
- [ ] Robert De Leeuw - EV Charging SIG Representative
- [ ] Romain Lebrun Thauront - FledgePower Representative
- [ ] Sachin Bhakar - covXtreme Representative, SC Decarbonisation Hub Representative
- [ ] Sander Jansen - CoMPAS Representative
- [ ] Stan Janssen - OpenLEADR Representative
- [ ] Stephen Suffian - Connected Data Specification - Power Systems Data Working Group (CDS WG2) Representative
- [ ] Thana Paris - CitrineOS Representative, EV Charging SIG Representative
- [ ] Thomas Van Dijk - Grid Simulation and Modeling SIG Representative

### LF Staff

- [X] Alex Thornton - LF Energy
- [X] Dan Brown
- [X] John Mertic - The Linux Foundation
- [X] Yarille Ortiz - The Linux Foundation

### Other Attendees
- Bruce Nordman
- Jesus Andres Rodriguez Sarasty
- Jorn Baayen
- Kjell Petter Myhren (Statnett)
- Peter Mitri (PowSyBl)

## Meeting Assets

- [Deck](2025-09-02/LF%20Energy%20-%20TAC%20Meeting%20-%202025-09-02.pdf)
- [Annual Review: OperatorFabric](2025-09-02/OperatorFabric_Annual_Review_2025.pdf)
- [New Project/Working Group Proposal: RTC-Tools](2025-09-02/RTC-Tools%20TAC%20LF%20Energy%20Meeting%20Sep%202%20-2025.pdf)
- [Recording](https://zoom.us/rec/share/hYHjA8oU94NYMCuCCpE3o2yE9hsT5Fhz36q36uf5g2OpH1Al9NGydyAxcHQ1Sxgz.yiIEU6tIIC9h3ql1)


## Antitrust Policy Notice

Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it
is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct all of its activities in
accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. It is therefore
extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of,
and not participate in, any activities that are prohibited under applicable US
state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings
and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are described in the Linux
Foundation Antitrust Policy available at
[linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy).
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel,
or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, feel free to contact Andrew
Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to
the Linux Foundation.

## Agenda

- General Updates
  - TAC Priorities 2025 [#436](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/436)
  - Project website policy [#582](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/pull/582)
  - PowSyBL Security audit complete! [#594](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/594)
  - Project Services Funding [#613](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/613)
- New Project/Working Group Proposal: RTC-Tools [#344](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/344)
- New Project/Working Group Proposal: Power Stability Wide Area Monitoring Protection (p-SWAMP) [#585](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/585)
- Annual Review: OperatorFabric [#71](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/71)
- Annual Review: Battery Data Alliance [#57](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/57)

## Notes

John Mertic called the meeting to order at 8:03am PT.

**Opening and General Updates**

Mertic reviewed the antitrust policy and the agenda. He noted Marketing updates were moved to an appendix due to time constraints.

Mertic reminded the attendees about the joint TAC and Governing Board at LF Energy Summit the following week. He said the EV charging SIG expanding its scope to include new projects in the flexibility space.

Mertic discussed the project pipeline, highlighting two proposed projects presenting at this meeting (RTC Tools and p-SWAMP), several others in various stages of formation, and efforts to clean up older projects. He mentioned the key tech priorities were documentation, audit, and support.

Mertic noted the Governing Board approved a $50,000 fund for project infrastructure services. He said the resource request process has been updated, and a project board was created to track these requests. Mertic said PowSyBl has requested to upgrade their runners and outlined the process for TAC review and approval.

Mertic presented a new project website policy which aligns with best practices and covering aspects like integration, consent, legal footers, admin access, third-party integrations, PII collection, DNS, vendor-neutral sites, and trademark policies.

Finally, Mertic announced PowSyBl completed their security audit and that Everest was in the process.
  
**RTC-Tools Project Proposal - [#344](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/344)**

Jesus Rodriguez Sarasty presented the RTC-Tools project, a robust Python framework for optimization and simulation in complex systems, with applications in energy and water systems. Rodriguez Sarasty noted the project addresses challenges in energy systems like uncertainty from renewables, increased complexity, and competing objectives. He reviewed the existing applications in energy and the strategic value for LF Energy.


Peter Mitri inquired about equivalent tools, with OptiMax from ABB mentioned as a similar commercial solution. He would send more questions offline. 

Antonello Monti requested a more technical description of the project to understand its functionalities and fit within the LF Energy constellation. Due to time, Mertic suggested that TAC members would review the project, attend the demo at the summit, and add any questions or comments to the GH issue here: [#344](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/344).

A vote would be held via LFX after the LF Energy Summit.

**Power Stability Wide Area Monitoring Protection (p-SWAMP) Project Proposal - [#585](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/585)**

Kjell Petter Myhren. Builds on a previous project, Nordic Early Warning Priority Prevention. Myhren proceeded to demonstrate the project.


Due to time, Mertic asked questions or comments to be added to the GH issue here: [#585](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/585) 
and an LFX vote would follow the LF Energy Summit. 


**Annual Review: Battery Data Alliance [#57](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/57)**
Gabe Hege presented the Battery Data Alliance annual review. He addressed the lack of clear standards, redundant work, and collaboration in the battery industry.

Hege said a solution involves building a community through open source software and defining best practices for safer and cheaper batteries. He spoke about the four categories of the battery industry.

Hege said the project utlizes Discourse to engage the community and, they also launched a new website.


**OperatorFabric [#71](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/71)**
Clement Bouvier presented the OperatorFabric annual review. He said the project aims to consolidate business-related application notifications into a single interface for real-time monitoring and to facilitate communication between operators.

Bouvier said there is a team of developers at RTE, with additional collaboration from RTE International. He noted the project is in the "early adoption" stage and not currently aiming for graduation due to a smaller community and lack of bandwidth to address criteria for the Best Practices Badge.

Bouvier mentioned inconsistent data from LFX Insights. He also said there is a proof of concept of integrating an AI assistant on the site to help the operator with the context of the card. 

Monti commented about the synergy between OperatorFabric and SOGNO. A conversation between Monti and Bouvier would take place offline.

Mertic concluded the meeting with an overview of the next meeting's agenda.

## Next Meeting Agenda

- General Updates
- Annual Review: GridFM [#260](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/260)
- Annual Review: Archimate SIG [#93](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/93)
- Annual Review: NODE Collective [#108](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/108)
- Annual Review: Grid Edge Interoperability & Security Alliance (GEISA) [#230](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/230)
