---
parent: Meetings
title: "2025-03-11"
---

# LF Energy Technical Advisory Council (TAC) Meeting - March 11, 2025

Join the meeting at [https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/95214651568?password=eda16f17-bdd1-4a9f-a594-0947a1433153](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/95214651568?password=eda16f17-bdd1-4a9f-a594-0947a1433153)

## Voting Representative Attendees

### Strategic Member Representatives

- [ ] Art Pope \- Google LLC  
- [x] Boris Dolley \- RTE (Reseau de Transport dElectricite)  
- [ ] Bryce Bartmann \- Shell International Exploration & Production, Inc.  
- [x] Jonas  Van Den Bogaard \- Alliander  
- [x] Yixing Xu \- Microsoft Corporation

### Project Representatives

- [x] Antonello Monti \- SOGNO Representative  
- [x] Clément Bouvier \- OperatorFabric Representative  
- [x] Maarten Mulder \- Grid eXchange Fabric (GXF) Representative  
- [ ] Clément Bouvier \- PowSyBl Representative (sub for Sophie Frasnedo)  
- [x] Travis Sikes \- OpenDSM Representative\#\# Non-Voting Attendees

### Non-Voting Project and Working Group Representatives

- [ ] Alexandre Parisot \- AI SIG Representative  
- [x] Arila Barnes \- Hyphae Representative  
- [ ] Eloi Bail \- SEAPATH Representative  
- [ ] Nicolas Höning \- FlexMeasures Representative  
- [ ] Robben Riksen \- Shapeshifter Representative  
- [ ] Stan Janssen \- OpenLEADR Representative  
- [ ] Tony Xiang \- Power Grid Model Representative

### LF Staff

- [x] Alex Thornton \- LF Energy  
- [ ] Alexandre Parisot \- LF Energy  
- [x] John Mertic \- The Linux Foundation  
- [x] Michelle Roth \- The Linux Foundation  
- [ ] Yarille Ortiz \- The Linux Foundation

### Other Attendees

* Roman Chubaruk \- Grid Capacity Map  
* Francois Miralles \- Hydro-Quebec   
* Gus Chadney \- Centre for Net Zero Ltd  
* Peter Mitri \- RTE-PowSyBl

## Antitrust Policy Notice

Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at [linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy). If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.

## Agenda

- General Updates  
- OpenSynth [\#68](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/68)  
- Grid Capacity Map [\#6](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/6)  
- TAC Priorities 2025 [\#436](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/436)  
- Marketing and Events updates

## Deck

[Deck](2025-03-11/2025-03-11-LF_Energy_TAC_Meeting.pdf)

## Recording

[Recording](https://zoom.us/rec/share/ZungXbwcRYlz-kBwr4h_vd4uM7EWwAiODF2BB_9YcQY2RlWx8e5hWBB12gEVntsi.0NLJvpcaSZrTGkGr)

## Notes

John Mertic called the meeting to order at 8:04am PT. 

### Opening and General Updates

Mertic reviewed the antitrust policy and the agenda. Mertic mentioned there are two project reviews for today, as well as a review of the 2025 TAC Priorities, and the meeting will conclude with a marketing and events update. 

Mertic also announced Jonas Van Den Bogaard is the new TAC Vice Chair per the recent election. 

### Projects and Working Group Leads

Mertic noted that there is no change in the project ecosystem, but requested assistance from the TAC leads in ensuring the LFX data for the project working group leads is up to date. 

Mertic also reviewed the annual project review schedule and noted that while many of the reviews have been offloaded onto SIGs, there are still a number scheduled for TAC review in the coming months. Mertic recommended that the TAC consider establishing some SIGs for a few projects where it makes sense. 

Next, Mertic shared the annual review schedule for LF Energy SIGs and asked the TAC for any feedback regarding timing and how completed reviews have gone so far. Van Den Bogaard shared that the Power Grid Model and OpenSTEF projects were reviewed and approved at the last Grid Simulation and Modeling SIG meeting and that Power Grid Model is targeting to be ready for the next step in the review lifecycle next year. Peter Mitri shared that the review for PowSyBl also went well. Mertic noted that the OpenFIDO review may need to be rescheduled as they are still being onboarded. 

Mertic briefly reviewed the TAC resources, website, and project pipeline. Mertic gave an update on a few projects that had previously been stalled in LF onboarding, CUPID, and RTC-Tools. Mertic then shared a modification to the Project Lifecycle that added a 6 month timeframe to project onboarding, and asked the TAC to approve. All TAC members present approved the additional sentence, and Mertic will merge accordingly. 

### TAC Priorities 

Mertic reviewed the current status of the 2025 TAC Priorities, noting that security audits will likely need to be prioritized in some way. Mertic demonstrated how the project Landscape has been updated, and mentioned that a review of LFESS Working Groups will be incorporated into the TAC annual review process but won’t need a vote. Mertic recommended that the Documentation audit/support task should be prioritized, and opened the priorities review up to the TAC for discussion. Boris Dolley volunteered to be part of the smaller review group, and Mertic took the action to schedule a meeting to kick things off in the next few weeks via a Doodle poll to the TAC. 

Van Den Bogaard suggested discussing how to build TAC momentum and engagement. Arila Barnes asked about the plan for AWS resourcing, and Mertic recommended adding it to the priorities list. Mertic reviewed the additions and two new top priorities and asked the TAC to approve. All TAC members present agreed. 

### Review for OpenSynth

Gus Chadney presented the annual review for OpenSynth. Chadney noted that code contributions have so far been low, likely due to high barriers to entry and data privacy concerns. Chadney gave an update on the activities of organizations who are contributing to OpenSynth, including that a number of papers have been published or submitted for publishing. Additionally, Chadney shared several key achievements for 2024, including the start of regular TSC meetings that have been enabling interesting discussions. 

Chadney noted that there are a few areas the project could use help with, including more contributor introductions, a strong growth plan, and content for marketing/community growth. Chadney shared that the OpenSynth project has very positive feedback for LF Energy, particularly that the LF Energy Summit was a great opportunity. 

Chadney opened it up for questions, and discussion followed about the project’s progress and challenges. Dolley suggested an email poll to the TAC to determine if there is a desire for github analytics, and if so, a follow up meeting should be scheduled. Mertic presented a motion to approve renewing OpenSynth for another year. Dolley motioned to approve the resolution which was seconded by Van Den Bogaard. With a majority of TAC members present, the resolution was approved. 

**RESOLVED:** That the motion to renew the OpenSynth project for 1 year is hereby approved. 

### Review for Grid Capacity Map 

Roman Chubaruk presented the annual review for Grid Capacity Map. Chubaruk gave an overview and current status of the project. Chubaruk requested consideration from the TAC for potentially moving the hosting of the project, as it is currently hosted on their own AWS. 

Chubaruk opened it up for questions, and discussion followed about the project’s progress and challenges. Chubaruk noted that the project is currently on hold following some licensing and security issues which should be resolved, but they are waiting on responses from power companies. Mertic presented a resolution to move the Grid Capacity Map into the Emeritus phase. Antonello Monti motioned to approve the resolution, which was seconded by Van Den Bogaard. With a majority of TAC members present, the resolution was approved. 

**RESOLVED:** That the motion to move the Grid Capacity Map project to Emeritus is hereby approved. 

### Marketing and PR Updates

Mertic did a quick review of LF Energy marketing updates, noting that there has been some nice success with recent webinars and reminding the TAC members and project leads to submit a request to Dan Brown if they’d like to host one. Mertic demonstrated some of the progress made updating the LF Energy website and reviewed current upcoming events and CFPs. 

## Next Meeting Agenda

Mertic presented the agenda for the next meeting of the LF Energy TAC, scheduled for 8 April 2025 at 8:00 a.m. US Pacific Time/11:00 a.m. US Eastern Time/5:00 p.m. Central European Time.

* General Updates  
* SAM proposal to move to Emeritus  
* Shapeshifter Annual Review  
* OperatorFabric Annual Review  
* Open Renewable Energy System (ORES) Working Group   
* Marketing and PR Updates

Barnes also shared there is an upcoming [open source energy hackathon event](https://lu.ma/h9khaweo) in San Francisco, CA that will highlight some LF Energy projects such as Hyphae. 

The meeting adjorned at 9:20 am US Pacific Time.