---
parent: Meetings
title: "2026-01-13"
---

# LF Energy Technical Advisory Council (TAC) Meeting - January 13, 2026

## Voting Representative Attendees

### Strategic Member Representatives

- [X] Antonello Monti - RWTH Aachen University (Chair)
- [ ] Art Pope - Google LLC
- [X] Boris Dolley - RTE (Reseau de Transport dElectricite)
- [X] Peter Mitri - PowSyBl Representative
- [X] Travis Sikes - OpenDSM Representative
- [X] Maarten Mulder - Grid eXchange Fabric (GXF) Representative

### Project Representatives

- [ ] Clément Bouvier - OperatorFabric Representative
- [X] Sachin Bakhar - Shell International Exploration & Production, Inc.
- [ ] Moise Kameni - Hydro-Quebec
- [X] Jonas van den Bogaard - Alliander

### Non-Voting Project and Working Group Representatives

- [X] Arila Barnes - Hyphae Representative
- [ ] Chris Xie - ORES Representative
- [ ] Daniel Roesler - CDS WG1 & 2 Representative
- [ ] Gabe Hege - Battery Data Alliance Representative
- [ ] Hugo van de Pol - OpenLEADR Representative
- [ ] Eloi Bail - SEAPATH Representative
- [ ] Frederic Didier - OperatorFabric Representative
- [ ] Karl Yang - ORES Representative
- [ ] Mark Nigge-Uricher - SAM Representative
- [ ] Michael Stuber - GEISA Representative
- [ ] Nicolas Höning - FlexMeasures Representative
- [ ] Richard Lam - GEISA Representative
- [ ] Robben Riksen - Shapeshifter Representative
- [ ] Robert Tusveld - GXF Representative
- [ ] Stan Janssen - OpenLEADR Representative
- [ ] Thana Paris - CitrineOS Representative
- [ ] Tony Xiang - Power Grid Model Representative
- [X] Kjell Petter Myhren - p-SWAMP
- [ ] David Chassin, Dynawo, Arras Representative

### LF Staff

- [X] Alex Thornton - LF Energy
- [ ] Alexandre Parisot - LF Energy
- [X] Dan Brown - The Linux Foundation
- [X] John Mertic - The Linux Foundation
- [X] Yarille Ortiz - The Linux Foundation

### Other Attendees
* Sebastien Lussier, Hydro-Quebec
* Thomas Wisbech, Energinet
* Bruce Nordman
* Zoltan Nagy
* Robert de Leeuw
* Les Nichols
* Christopher Atkins, Miso

## Meeting Assets
* [Deck](2026-01-13/LF Energy - TAC Meeting - 2026-01-13)
* [Project Origin Presentation](https://github.com/user-attachments/files/25430719/LFE.-.Project.Origin.-.Granular.Certificates.-.LFE.TAG.11.11.2025.pptx.pdf)
* [CityLearn Project Proposal](https://github.com/user-attachments/files/25430808/20250113_CityLearn_TAC.pdf)
* [Recording](https://zoom.us/rec/share/N_ZXkvpqS_vihFmL9qeN8D-SDkRwMTS8bI-6EwC_BWpC4ESc4snaoMONSTimPOnA.qiZaegjvNr6SfOju)

## Antitrust Policy Notice

Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at [linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy). If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.

## Agenda

* Opening and General Updates
    * Project Lifecycle Review [#650](https://github.com/orgs/lf-energy/projects/2/views/1?pane=issue&itemId=136015884&issue=lf-energy%7Ctac%7C650)
    * Update - Project Origin [#576](https://github.com/lf-energy/tac/issues/576)
* 2026 Strategic Overview [#671](https://github.com/orgs/lf-energy/projects/2/views/1?pane=issue&itemId=137459583&issue=lf-energy%7Ctac%7C671) and 2026 Priorities [#673](https://github.com/orgs/lf-energy/projects/2/views/1?pane=issue&itemId=137460235&issue=lf-energy%7Ctac%7C673)
* New Project Proposal: CityLearn [#506](https://github.com/orgs/lf-energy/projects/2/views/1?pane=issue&itemId=107677636&issue=lf-energy%7Ctac%7C506)
* Annual Review: TROLIE [#79](https://github.com/orgs/lf-energy/projects/2/views/1?pane=issue&itemId=43784059&issue=lf-energy%7Ctac%7C79) 
* Marketing and PR Updates
* Closing and Next Meeting

## Notes

John Mertic called the meeting to order at 8:02 am PT and Yarille Ortiz recorded the minutes.

### Opening and General Updates

Mertic reviewed the antitrust policy and introduced the meeting agenda.

### Projects and Working Group Leads

Mertic briefly reviewed the TAC and SIG review calendars and project pipeline. He noted PyEQL will be maintaining their project and not bringing it to LF Energy at this time. He also announced the addition of the EDDIE project to the pipeline.

### Project Origin Update [#576](https://github.com/orgs/lf-energy/projects/2?pane=issue&itemId=118976779&issue=lf-energy%7Ctac%7C576)

The TAC discussed Project Origin, with Thomas Wisbech offering to help lead during the transitions phase. Jonas proposed moving the project to a sandbox stage with a 6-month check-in to review its progress. Thomas agreed, noting that Project Origin has been presented at summits for three years and has the expertise but lacks funding. The group decided to move forward with the sandbox stage proposal for LFX voting, with TAC members set to submit their votes shortly after the meeting.

Ortiz will send the project to voting members for approval following the meeting.

## 2026 TAC Strategic Planning and Priorities

Jonas van den Bogaard led a discussion around the TAC priorities. He began by providing a summary of the LF Energy Governing Board strategy, which includes building on the success of the LF Energy Summit, leveling up projects through marketing and documentation, and focusing on community training and education. Van den Bogaard and Mertic discussed the tech priorities for the upcoming year, which include leadership and governance changes in the TAC, empowering the TAC to shape strategic vision, and addressing norms and policies. They also highlighted the importance of strategic funding, engagement, and collaboration, as well as exploring operational improvements such as a dashboard for tracking project resources. 

The group discussed plans for coordinating and collaborating on open-source projects in LF Energy, with a focus on showcasing cross-project integration. Robert de Leeuw highlighted the potential to link EV charging, OpenADR, and Citrine OS with Everest, while Arila Barnes suggested using the Energy IoT open-source lab in Oakland for hands-on demonstrations during Climate Week and the LF Energy Summit in Berlin. Van den Bogaard emphasized the importance of making successful examples of project collaboration more visible as inspiration for others.

The TAC also discussed project workshops and meetups from the last LF Energy Summit, with van den Bogaard asking for feedback from projects on participating in future workshops.

Van den Bogaard invited feedback from the group to refine these priorities before the next meeting.

## New Project Proposal: CityLearn [#506](https://github.com/orgs/lf-energy/projects/2/views/1?pane=issue&itemId=107677636&issue=lf-energy%7Ctac%7C506)

Zoltan Nagy presented CityLearn, a new project focused on unlocking flexibility in building energy use for grid decarbonization. He explained the motivation behind the project, its sandbox environment for testing control strategies, and its potential for cross-project collaborations. Zoltan also highlighted the project's user base, data sets, and ongoing community challenges, as well as its integration with other projects like Power Grid Model.

Van den Bogaard inquired about the relationship between CityLearn and the Hyphae project, leading to a discussion of potential applications and synergies. The group agreed to propose CityLearn for an LF Energy sandbox vote, with van den Bogaard expressing support.

## Annual Review: TROLIE [#79](https://github.com/orgs/lf-energy/projects/2/views/1?pane=issue&itemId=43784059&issue=lf-energy%7Ctac%7C79) 

Updates on the Trolie project were presented by Christopher Atkins. This project is focused on standardizing dynamic ratings for grid operators and has been adopted by GE Vernova. While the project continues to be enhanced, Atkins stressed the necessity of developing a conformance suite. Atkins explained that while the specification is open source and widely accepted, there's a need for more vendor adoption beyond the current single implementation.

## Marketing and PR Updates

Dan Brown provided updates on marketing efforts, including an upcoming EVerest webinar and the end-of-year wrap-up announcement. He also highlighted upcoming events like the LF Energy Summit Europe 2026 in Berlin and participation in FOSDEM and Distributech, encouraging community involvement and sponsorship.

## Closing and Next Meeting

Mertic presented the agenda for the next meeting of the LF Energy TAC, scheduled for 10 February 2026 at 8:00 a.m. US Pacific Time/11:00 a.m. US Eastern Time/5:00 p.m. Central European Time.
